influenced some of the decisions that made A&M a
better institution. All right. Can you think on
that? Can you think of any time when the decision
was in the lurch and some individual, you or
somebody else, may have at a key moment made that
decision?
Work? Well, I guess in some ways it has to, I'm
thinking several, because one of the lines that I
used with a lot of prospective faculty members was
that the thing I liked, one of the things I liked the
most about ADN was that generally the
administration, when you propose something to
them, their first response was likely to be, let's
see how we can make that work. And then after you
looked into it carefully, there were times that
you came up and said, we can't. But I found that so
much more satisfying than saying, well, you know,
why don't we? No, no, we've already done that
before, and it didn't work, and we don't have the
money to do it. So, you know, we just can't even
think about that. At least let me finish my
sentence and say what I think we ought to think
about. No, we just can't do it. So again, I talked
about some of the programs, tectonophysics and
the nautical archeology program. There were so
many programs that A&M got involved with that most
universities couldn't have done. And the
available fund was a critical factor in allowing
us to do a lot of things. As you remember when you
were here, Haskell, there were a lot of years that
we were teaching more students without state
subvention than were being taught at Prairie View
and Tarleton combined. And we had a lot of growth
and I think it was a, I think we did not lose a lot in
the quality of what we were doing. But I think a lot
of schools would have just been suffering from
trying to do because of the resources we had and the
support we had from the administration. And a lot
of the board members were very pleased to see us
grow. I remember, and you were involved a lot, I
know, in trying to figure out how in the world we
could ever get over the 20,000. How can we get to
where we'll have 20,000 students? We'll beat the
Bushes, and we'll do this, and we'll do that. And
then when they came, they came in a rush. Just two or
three more things. Can you think of any, as you look
back, can you think of any event or decision with
the benefit of hindsight, if you could have had
omnipotence, at that point, do you go back and
change that one?
The one I guess I would achieve that I had nothing to
do with it would be giving up the part of the state. I
think that from a system point of view that was...
What about any here? Be it personnel decisions or
academic decisions? Well there are certainly
some personnel decisions that I would have done
differently but those are value judgments.
I think I'll pass on those. As you look back, which
are the dearest parts of the university to your
heart? Which parts do you care most about?
I guess, again, for a single event, the one that was
most moving to me is Silver Taps. I just think that
makes A&M truly unique as far as I know. I think a lot
of the traditions of A&M are still very important.
The thing that I fear we are not doing as well today,
or they're not doing as well today, is the real
concern for the undergrad students that seems to
be less important today than it has been in the
past. And I have believed for a long while that that
administrators, university administrators,
are really short-sighted.
When they don't recognize that the best
advertisement you get is a well-qualified,
employed, satisfied graduate. And they're going
to become taxpayers and some of them become
legislators. And if they have very positive
memories about their higher education
experience, it's going to be a lot better. If they
have very negative experiences, then they're
going to pay a price sooner or later. And one of the
things that I've probably inflicted on you that I
really think has some substance is that
intrastate your reputation built on high quality
undergraduate education and applied research.
But nationally and internationally, it's on
basic research and graduate education. And so
when you try to plug in both audiences, it's tough.
But it's something I think can be done. And I think,
again, A&M has the resources to do both. I don't
think it has to be either or. Which unit or part or
department of the campus do you care most about and
kind of keep in touch with how it's progressing if
you read the paper or talk to people? But one of the
things that I believe is true is that I always had a
concern for the entire university. I never felt
parochial, and that's a strength and a weakness
because even when I had nothing to do, I was still
interested in the student life. I think that's
very important, the second curriculum and all
those things. even though I had no direct
involvement. But I always admired the history
department. I'm not saying it's because you're
here. But for a long time, I think it was generally
conceded that the best teaching in the university
was done in the history department. But even when I
had nothing to do with history, I admired the fact
that there was really high quality teaching done
in the history department. I am certainly not a
scientist nor an engineer, but I take great pride
in the reputation of science and engineering at
Texas A&M. I take great pride in the reputation I
think the vet school has had. So again, I'd like to
live in the reflected glory of A&M. And so I want
them to do whatever they do well. And one of the
things, again, I think you and I talked about, I
just like when people think of A&M as a class place.
Last, your favorite Aggie story. My favorite
Aggie story is at the adjunct when I was the
director. At that point, we sent out mid-six weeks
grades. So at the end of the three weeks, we sent out
grades. We had a kid named Jack Abbott from down in
the valley. really nice young man, not a great
student. And he was not doing well. And as soon as
the male could get to the valley and the woman could
drive up in a big, big Cadillac, she was there. And
she came in and she was very, very nicely dressed.
And she came in to see me to talk about her son.
So I told her, I said, you know, Jack is a really fine
young man, and he is a good hurdler, but I really
don't believe he's ready for Texas A&M right now.
And she said, well, what do you think he ought to do?
And I said, well, you know, that's got to be his
choice and your choice. But if you ask me, I would
think it might be worthwhile for him to consider a
good community college and get the basic courses,
a little more maturity, get him to his major where
he'd be more interested and do better. Which
junior college do you think he ought to go to? You
know, that's your choice. But I said, you know,
since you've asked, I'll take it. The students
from Blinn have tended to do well when they
transferred to Indian. I said, they've got that
two-timing approach over there, and they run a
pretty tight ship that's close to Indian. They get
to visit friends, be involved. I said, so that
would be one he might want to consider. And she
said, Dr. McKinney, I don't care who my son
marries. And I don't care what church he attends.
But he will graduate from Texas A&M. And he did. He
went to Blinn. I heard he got sick over there. His
mother grew up in the valley. Ran two motel rooms.
She got all his homework assignments. Helped him
all that. And he came over here, ran track,
lettered. He graduated, but I'll never forget
that line. I don't care who he marries or what
church he attends, but he will graduate from Texas
A&M. Thank you.